<header class="resume-header">
	<div class="resume-header-main">
		<h1 class="resume-title">Tiger Oakes</h1>
		<p class="resume-summary">
			Software Developer with 4 years of experience in functional and object-oriented programming. Proven success creating custom solutions for a variety of businesses.
		</p>
	</div>
	<ul class="resume-header-items">
		<li>contact@tigeroakes.com</li>
		<li>253-778-6251</li>
		<li>Vancouver, BC</li>
		<li>github.com/NotWoods</li>
	</ul>
</header>

# Work Experience #

#### 05/2016 – Present (github.com/ubc-farm)

## Software Developer

### Centre for Sustainable Food Systems at UBC Farm
* Developed custom software with the UBC Work Learn International Undergraduate Research Award.
*	JavaScript program stores data collected by farmers for researching and analyzing growing patterns.
*	Used geometry calculations to let users draw farm fields and split them into grid based plots.
*	Implemented UI with **React** and **Redux** using functional programming design.

#### 10/2009 – 08/2015 (omlhawaii.com)

## Web Developer and IT Manager

### OML Contracting Co.

*Construction company building private resort residences in Hawai’i*
*	Designed and developed portfolio to showcase completed residences.
*	Implemented **CSS** 3D animations to create GPU accelerated parallax effect.
*	Applied lazy-loading CSS to speed up first render.


# Personal Projects

#### 05/2014 – 05/2015 (notwoods.github.io/big-island-buses)

## Big Island Buses
*Bus rider web app to replace Hawai’i paper bus schedules*
*	Won **Grand Prize in Congressional App Challenge 2014, Hawaii’s 2nd Congressional District**.
*	Used JavaScript geolocation API to locate nearby bus stops and routes.
*	Implemented AppCache API to allow the web application to run offline.

#### 04/2014 – 05/2014 (notwoods.github.io/mbta-energy)

## MBTA Energy
*Energy monitor program for Myron B. Thompson Academy*
*	Volunteered to create tool to assist teacher and his class in aggregating data.
*	Calculated reports automatically generated by Belkin WeMo Insight Switch devices.
*	Charted electricity usage for high school students to analyze and pinpoint abnormal energy fluctuations.
*	Implemented FileReader API and CSV parser in JavaScript.


# Education

#### 09/2015 – 04/2020 (expected with co-op)

## Bachelor of Science in Computer Science

### University of British Columbia

# Awards
Grand Prize: Congressional App Challenge 2014, Hawaii’s 2nd Congressional District

UBC Work Learn International Undergraduate Research Award
